# ABSTRACT
Safety and security has become a concern on every level whether it is on individual level or group of individuals. To visualize and remain conscious about the surroundings in order to know what’s happening has become crucial and essential especially where visual sight is unable to detect the objects like in darker areas. Therefore, we need to develop the mobile app which is capable to detect the surrounding environment in a thermal mode and let the user know in real time about the entities present in his/her surroundings. The hardware to be used is the thermal mobile camera attached with the android phone which will take the input feed in real time and after processing the data, it will display the required results accordingly. The idea here is to train deep learning model first and then run its inference on mobile app because due to this inference the model is capable enough to run on low end powered devices. For model to run on low end powered devices MobileNet architecture is used due to its lightweight and fast neural architecture which reduce the number of parameters drastically. The model uses depthwise separable convolution approach to reduce and optimize the model. The depthwise separable convolution is made up of two layers, firstly it uses depthwise convolution in which single filter is applied to each input channel and then when it comes to pointwise convolution it uses 1 x 1 convolution, after which all the layers are combined to give the output result. The resulted optimized file upon deployment in android will be used to classify the objects without any need of wireless connectivity and reducing the latency. The dataset collected was on three different categories including human, cat and car using the Flir thermal camera and Seek thermal camera. Supervised learning model was trained with using seek thermal camera and tested with images which were taken by Flir camera and the testing accuracy was 90 percent on them.
